Kestra SQS integration article (#641)
kestra-io/docs: content/blogs/2023-11-15-kestra-sqs.md

### Example 2: Process Messages from AWS SQS
We've used the `io.kestra.plugin.aws.sqs.Publish` plugin to send messages to SQS, so can you guess the name of the plugin used to do the opposite? If you've guessed `io.kestra.plugin.aws.sqs.Consume`, you're absolutely right!

This plugin requires you to set either the `maxDuration` or `maxRecords` parameter. Since we already know there are 2 messages in a queue, we'll use the latter, just for convenience. Once again, the credentials will be stored in `taskDefaults` for this specific plugin.

There's not much to it - the plugin is straightforward to use, but there are a couple of [extra parameters available](https://kestra.io/plugins/plugin-aws/tasks/sqs/io.kestra.plugin.aws.sqs.consume) if you want to dig deeper:

```yaml
id: read-from-sqs
namespace: dev

tasks:
  - id: consumeSqsMessages
    type: io.kestra.plugin.aws.sqs.Consume
    maxRecords: 2

taskDefaults:
  - type: io.kestra.plugin.aws.sqs.Consume
    values:
      accessKeyId: "{{ secret('AWS_ACCESS_KEY') }}"
      secretKeyId: "{{ secret('AWS_SECRET_KEY') }}"
      region: "{{ secret('AWS_REGION') }}"
      queueUrl: "{{ secret('SQS_URL') }}"
```

> This is what your flow editor should look like:
> 
> ![Image 8 - Kestra editor contents](/blogs/2023-11-15-kestra-sqs/8.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This makes the post unnecessarily long. if you add a code block, no need to add a screenshot showing the code in the Editor.

    region: "{{ secret('AWS_REGION') }}"
    queueUrl: "{{ secret('SQS_URL') }}"
    maxRecords: 1
```

The `maxRecords` property set to 1 means one execution of everything specified under `tasks` will process exactly 1 SQS message.

**There's no need to run this flow - just save it**. To test things out, we'll go over to AWS and send a new message to the queue manually:

![Image 5 - Manually sending message to a queue](/blogs/2023-11-15-kestra-sqs/5.png)

The `io.kestra.core.tasks.log.Log` plugin included in our flow logic was set to log the trigger URI. You can access all Kestra logs under "Logs" in the navigation menu:

![Image 6 - Kestra logs](/blogs/2023-11-15-kestra-sqs/6.png)

As you can see, the URI of the processed SQS message was logged successfully.

You can click on the `executionId` value of this log to further inspect everything that happened behind the scenes: 

![Image 7 - Execution details](/blogs/2023-11-15-kestra-sqs/7.png)

And to finally verify the message you sent manually was retrieved by Kestra, you can preview or download the file at the logged URI. Here's what it contains:

![Image 8 - Flow execution Gantt view](/blogs/2023-11-15-kestra-sqs/8.png)

> If you want a set-it-and-forget-it way of processing SQS messages with Kestra, this is the only approach you'll need. But if you want a bit more manual control, make sure to read the two upcoming examples.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want a simple way of processing SQS messages in your workflows, this is the only approach you'll need. If you want to send custom SQS messages from your application, read on.
```

### Example 2: Push Messages to AWS SQS
In this example, you'll write a Kestra flow that manually pushes a message to SQS.

> It's a good practice to create `taskDefaults` for `io.kestra.plugin.aws.sqs.Publish`. This will ensure we don't have to repeat ourselves and also will allow us to change credentials in one place.
> 
> The `io.kestra.plugin.aws.sqs.Publish` plugin also accepts `from` parameter, which further expects one or more `data` values to be submitted to the queue. You can read more about message formatting on our [official documentation](https://kestra.io/plugins/plugin-aws/tasks/sqs/io.kestra.plugin.aws.sqs.publish).
> 
> Our flow will separate the two message publishing tasks with a simple Python script task that sleeps for a couple of seconds:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's a good practice to create `taskDefaults` for `io.kestra.plugin.aws.sqs.Publish`. This will ensure we don't have to repeat ourselves and also will allow us to change credentials in one place.

The `io.kestra.plugin.aws.sqs.Publish` plugin also accepts `from` parameter, which further expects one or more `data` values to be submitted to the queue. You can read more about message formatting in our [official documentation](https://kestra.io/plugins/plugin-aws/tasks/sqs/io.kestra.plugin.aws.sqs.publish).

Our flow will separate the two message publishing tasks with a simple Python script task that sleeps for a couple of seconds:
```

```yaml
id: publish-to-sqs
namespace: dev

tasks:
  - id: sqsMessageStart
    type: io.kestra.plugin.aws.sqs.Publish
    from:
      data: "FLOW: publish-to-sqs | TASK ID: sqsMessageStart | Flow started."

  - id: pythonScript
    type: io.kestra.plugin.scripts.python.Script
    warningOnStdErr: false
    script: |
      import time

      time.sleep(5)

  - id: sqsMessageEnd
    type: io.kestra.plugin.aws.sqs.Publish
    from:
      data: "FLOW: publish-to-sqs | TASK ID: sqsMessageEnd | Flow finished."

taskDefaults:
  - type: io.kestra.plugin.aws.sqs.Publish
    values:
      accessKeyId: "{{ secret('AWS_ACCESS_KEY') }}"
      secretKeyId: "{{ secret('AWS_SECRET_KEY') }}"
      region: "{{ secret('AWS_REGION') }}"
      queueUrl: "{{ secret('SQS_URL') }}"
```

You can **run the flow** by clicking on the "Execute" button in the top right corner. You'll see the following Gantt view immediately afterward:

![Image 9 - Flow execution Gantt view](/blogs/2023-11-15-kestra-sqs/9.png)

> The good thing about SQS is that it allows us to **see how many messages are currently in the queue**, straight from the AWS site:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The good thing about SQS is that it allows us to **see how many messages are currently in the queue**, straight from the AWS console:
```

![Image 10 - Flow execution Gantt view](/blogs/2023-11-15-kestra-sqs/10.png)

> Long story short, it's safe to assume the messages were successfully published from Kestra to SQS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, the messages were successfully published from Kestra to SQS.
```

There's not much to it - the plugin is straightforward to use, but there are a couple of [extra parameters available](https://kestra.io/plugins/plugin-aws/tasks/sqs/io.kestra.plugin.aws.sqs.consume) if you want to dig deeper:

```yaml
id: read-from-sqs
namespace: dev

tasks:
  - id: consumeSqsMessages
    type: io.kestra.plugin.aws.sqs.Consume
    maxRecords: 2

taskDefaults:
  - type: io.kestra.plugin.aws.sqs.Consume
    values:
      accessKeyId: "{{ secret('AWS_ACCESS_KEY') }}"
      secretKeyId: "{{ secret('AWS_SECRET_KEY') }}"
      region: "{{ secret('AWS_REGION') }}"
      queueUrl: "{{ secret('SQS_URL') }}"
```

As earlier, running the task will redirect you to a flow execution Gantt view:

![Image 11 - Flow execution Gantt view](/blogs/2023-11-15-kestra-sqs/11.png)

All the good stuff is stored in the *Outputs* tab. Click on it to continue:

![Image 12 - Outputs tab](/blogs/2023-11-15-kestra-sqs/12.png)

You can download the consumed SQS messages locally to verify they are the ones submitted by the previous task:

![Image 13 - Consumed messages](/blogs/2023-11-15-kestra-sqs/13.png)

> And that's pretty much all there is to the Kestra SQS integration. You can publish and consume messages, and that's actually all you need. Let's wrap things up next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With that, we've covered several ways of building decoupled applications. We've started with event-driven workflow execution based on the presence of new messages in the message queue. Then, we looked at how you can produce and consume messages within your tasks.
```

> ---
> ## Summing up Kestra and AWS SQS
> Today you got a 10000-foot overview of message queues and why they're essential in modern and scalable applications/APIs. You've also seen how to work with Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS) directly from Kestra, which allows you to send messages to the queue and read them thanks to our specific plugins. By far the most common use case of this integration is to create an automated trigger flow, as shown in Example #1. This will be enough for 90% of users.
> 
> To recap, queues are life savers when you want to scale your applications, and SQS is among the best queues available right now. Kestra integration allows you to integrate SQS into your new and existing workflows, which is yet another practical worth exploring.
> 
> You might also be interested in other recently implemented Kestra integrations, such as the one for [SurrealDB](https://kestra.io/blogs/2023-10-09-kestra-surrealdb) and [Weaviate](https://kestra.io/blogs/2023-10-31-kestra-weaviate). Make sure to check these out, especially the latter if you want to learn how to work with **vector databases**.
> 
> Subscribe to our newsletter below for more guides on modern orchestration, automation, and trends in data management, as well as new features in our platform.
> 
> Join the [Slack community](https://kestra.io/slack) if you have any questions or need assistance. Follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/kestra_io) for the latest news. Check the code in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra) and give us a star if you like the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---

## Next steps

Today, you got a 10,000-foot overview of message queues and why they're so useful in modern and scalable applications. You've also seen how to work with Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS) directly from Kestra, which allows you to react to new messages from the queue, as well as produce and consume them. By far, the most common use case of this integration is to create an automated trigger flow, as shown in Example #1. This will be enough for 90% of use cases.

To recap, queues are life savers when you want to scale your applications, and SQS is among the most mature and widely used message queues available today. 

You might also be interested in other recently implemented Kestra integrations, such as the one for [SurrealDB](https://kestra.io/blogs/2023-10-09-kestra-surrealdb) and [Weaviate](https://kestra.io/blogs/2023-10-31-kestra-weaviate). Make sure to check these out, especially the latter, if you want to learn how to work with **vector databases**.

Subscribe to our newsletter below for more guides on modern orchestration, automation, and trends in data management, as well as new features in our platform.

Join the [Slack community](https://kestra.io/slack) if you have any questions or need assistance. Follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/kestra_io) for the latest news. Check the code in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra) and give us a star if you like the project.
```
